= The NTPsec core team =
:toc!:
:numbered!:

In aphabetical order:

== Mark Atwood ==

Mark Atwood is our Project Manager pro-tem.

Mark is the Director of Open Source Engagement at Hewlett Packard
Enterprise. His experience includes working with and creating
technology industry foundations, standards bodies, and conference
organizing committees, usually because "it needs doing". He prefers to
work behind the scenes. He describes his job as "learning amazing
stuff and meeting amazing people, and then introducing them all to
each other". His previous employment include being the Open Source
Advocate for Red Hat OpenShift, the Community Manager for Eucalyptus
Systems, the Director of Community Development for Gear6 Memcached,
and a Senior Technology Advisor for Network.com at Sun
Microsystems. He is a coauthor of the OAuth Core specification, and is
the co-owner of an industrial-art makerspace.

When he is not traveling, he makes his home in Seattle.

== Daniel Fox Franke ==

Daniel is our cryptographic specialist and code reviewer.

Daniel is a Principal Security Researcher at Akamai Technologies. His
job is to help engineers write safer code, particularly when it
involves cryptography, and with the assistance of formal methods when
appropriate.

Daniel's hobbies include running, mountaineering, and dog sledding. He
has swum to shore from Alcatraz Island and solo summited Mt.
Washington in February in 65mph winds. He tweets as
https://twitter.com/dfranke[@dfranke] and blogs irregularly at
https://www.dfranke.us[Indistinguishable from Random].

== Chris Johns ==

Chris is our expert on high-precision programming, threads, and SMP.

Chris Johns is an embedded real-time software engineer working close
to the hardware interfacing it to real-time software. Chris has been a
constant contributor to the RTEMS project since it was opened in the
early 1990's and is now a core developer of that project. Chris's work
ranges from operating system support for aerospace flight software for
satellites (including the Magnetospheric Multiscale Mission) and X-ray
detectors for various beam lines, to various types of networking
including voice switching on the NATO AWACS.

Chris lives with his wife and children, pretends to play tennis, and
walks his dogs (which usually means a stroll to a cafe for breakfast).

== Hal Murray ==

Hal is our voice of wisdom.

Hal is a retired engineer who worked at the hardware/software
boundary.  He won't be insulted if you call him a geek, nerd, or
hacker.  He likes chasing glitches, quirks, and bugs.  Hal caught the
time bug a long time ago; in the early 80s, the time servers at Xerox
PARC were set from his watch.

== Eric S. Raymond ==

Eric is our architecture and protocols guru.

Eric S. Raymond has been the technical lead of GPSD, a close peer
project of NTP and one of its principal time sources, since 2004. GPSD
has billions of deployments in Android smartphones world wide and is a
mission-critical component in most of the world's drones and
driverless cars and robot submarines. He is also well-known as the author
of _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_ and one of the founders of the
modern open-source movement.

ESR brings the NTPsec project deep expertise in software architecture,
DSLs, application-protocol design, end-to-end testing, and several
other technical areas. His tools jailbroke the NTP Classic repository
out of BitKeeper, and he composed a lot of the website you're viewing.

In his spare time, Eric trains in kung fu and Western sword, shoots
pistols, link://esr.ibiblio.org/[writes a blog], and reads science
fiction.

== Joel Sherrill ==

Joel specializes in safety-critical, high integrity systems.

Dr. Joel Sherrill has worked on a variety of safety-critical real-time
embedded systems for almost thirty years and an active participant in
the free software community for most of that. Joel is one of the original
authors and project lead for RTEMS.org, a free real-time operating system.
In addition to being a contributor to multiple free software projects,
Joel is a founding member of the Steering Committee for the Free
Software Foundation's GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) and has served on
the Network Time Foundation Board.

In his copious free time Joel travels, hosts parties, and helps
maintain the unofficial Elvis Costello fan site.

== Susan Sons ==

Susan is the team's InfoSec specialist and first responder for
security issues.

Susan is a Senior Systems Analyst at Indiana University's Center for
Applied Cybersecurity Research, and as director of the Internet Civil
Engineering Institute, a nonprofit dedicated to supporting and
securing the common software infrastructure we all depend on. Susan
comes from a background in abuse management, web development, and web
application pentesting.

In her free time, Susan writes, practices and teaches martial arts,
contributes to open source software, and volunteers as a
search-and-rescue and disaster relief worker. Susan lives and raises
her mini-hacker in Bloomington, IN.

Known vulnerabilities: can be bribed with dark chocolate, occasionally
disappears into forests for extended periods.

== Amar Takhar ==

Amar is our testing and infrastructure specialist.

Amar has worked on both software and hardware testing for 18 years.  He has
designed several complete testing systems for Continuous Integration,
operational and structured testing.  Amar has a strong passion for design
conformance, quality assurance, big data and cross platform compatibility.  With
over 20 years in the open source community and longterm commitment to several
projects he also enjoys spending his spare time in the garden, running,
reading and cooking.

//end
